README.md, before:

# CAR HIRE/RENTALS JSON API WITH RAILS 6

In this project, users can add a car and it's featured amongst the least of cars available for hire. It is the API implementation of the main app.
The project serves as my final capstone project at Microverse.

## Live Link
[API Home](https://cush-car.herokuapp.com)
[ Client App](https://hire-a-car-client.herokuapp.com/)

## Built With

- Ruby v2.7.2
- Ruby on Rails v6.0.3.2
- RSpec-Rails for testing


## Current API Endpoints

The API will expose the following RESTful endpoints.
### BaseUrl: {Host-URL}/api/v1

| Endpoint                | Functionality                |
|-------------------------|------------------------------|
| POST /register          | Signup                       |
| POST /login             | Login                        |
| GET /users              | List all users               |
| GET /cars               | List all cars                |
| POST /cars              | Add a new car                |
| DELETE /cars/:id        | Delete a car                 |
| PUT /cars/:id           | Update a car                 |
| DELETE /user/:id        | Delete a user                |
| PUT /user/:id           | Update a user                |
| POST /favourites        | Add favourite car            |
| GET /favourites         | Get user favourite cars      |

## API Documentation
[Car Rentals API](https://documenter.getpostman.com/view/171080/TW6tKpYs)
## Getting Started

To get a local copy up and running follow these simple example steps.

### Prerequisites

Ruby: 2.6.5
Rails: 6.0.3.2
Postgres: >=9.5

### Setup

~~~bash
$ git clone https://github.com/acushlakoncept/car-rental-api.git
$ cd car-rental-api
~~~

Install gems with:

```
bundle install
```

Setup database with:

> make sure you have postgress sql installed and running on your system

```
   rails db:create
   rails db:migrate
   rails db:seed
```

### Usage

Start server with:

```
    rails server
```

Open `http://localhost:3000/` in your browser.

### Deploy to a live server

Deploying to a live server like Heroku is easy, make sure you have the necessary credentials setup on your local machine

```bash
heroku create --stack heroku-18
heroku rename app-new-name
git push heroku $BRANCH_NAME:master 
```
if you are already in master branch no need to add $BRANCH_NAME, just use `git push heroku master`

```bash
heroku run rails db:migrate
heroku run rails db:seed
heroku open
```

Enjoy your newly deployed rails API


### Run tests

```
    rpsec 
```

# Authors

👤 **Uduak Essien**

- Github: [@acushlakoncept](https://github.com/acushlakoncept/)
- Twitter: [@acushlakoncept](https://twitter.com/acushlakoncept)
- Linkedin: [acushlakoncept](https://www.linkedin.com/in/acushlakoncept/)


## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions, issues and feature requests are welcome!

Feel free to check the [issues page](issues/).

## Show your support

Give a ⭐️ if you like this project!

Commit message:

Update readme file with app description

README.md, after:

# CAR HIRE/RENTALS JSON API WITH RAILS 6

A RESTFUL API built with Ruby on Rails. It uses JWT to implement Authentication & Authorization.
In this project, I built a fullstack application where users can access cars and it's featured amongst the least of cars available for hire. 
The project serves as my final capstone project at Microverse. The repo for the client app can be accessed [here](https://github.com/acushlakoncept/car-rentals-client)

## Live Link
[API Home](https://cush-car.herokuapp.com)
[ Client App](https://hire-a-car-client.herokuapp.com/)

## Built With

- Ruby v2.7.2
- Ruby on Rails v6.0.3.2
- RSpec-Rails for testing


## Current API Endpoints

The API will expose the following RESTful endpoints.
### BaseUrl: {Host-URL}/api/v1

| Endpoint                | Functionality                |
|-------------------------|------------------------------|
| POST /register          | Signup                       |
| POST /login             | Login                        |
| GET /users              | List all users               |
| GET /cars               | List all cars                |
| POST /cars              | Add a new car                |
| DELETE /cars/:id        | Delete a car                 |
| PUT /cars/:id           | Update a car                 |
| DELETE /user/:id        | Delete a user                |
| PUT /user/:id           | Update a user                |
| POST /favourites        | Add favourite car            |
| GET /favourites         | Get user favourite cars      |

## API Documentation
[Car Rentals API](https://documenter.getpostman.com/view/171080/TW6tKpYs)
## Getting Started

To get a local copy up and running follow these simple example steps.

### Prerequisites

Ruby: 2.6.5
Rails: 6.0.3.2
Postgres: >=9.5

### Setup

~~~bash
$ git clone https://github.com/acushlakoncept/car-rental-api.git
$ cd car-rental-api
~~~

Install gems with:

```
bundle install
```

Setup database with:

> make sure you have postgress sql installed and running on your system

```
   rails db:create
   rails db:migrate
   rails db:seed
```

### Usage

Start server with:

```
    rails server -p 3001
```

Open `http://localhost:3001/` in your browser.

### Deploy to a live server

Deploying to a live server like Heroku is easy, make sure you have the necessary credentials setup on your local machine

```bash
heroku create --stack heroku-18
heroku rename app-new-name
git push heroku $BRANCH_NAME:master 
```
if you are already in master branch no need to add $BRANCH_NAME, just use `git push heroku master`

```bash
heroku run rails db:migrate
heroku run rails db:seed
heroku open
```

Enjoy your newly deployed rails API


### Run tests

```
    rpsec 
```

# Authors

👤 **Uduak Essien**

- Github: [@acushlakoncept](https://github.com/acushlakoncept/)
- Twitter: [@acushlakoncept](https://twitter.com/acushlakoncept)
- Linkedin: [acushlakoncept](https://www.linkedin.com/in/acushlakoncept/)


## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions, issues and feature requests are welcome!

Feel free to check the [issues page](issues/).

## Show your support

Give a ⭐️ if you like this project!

## Acknowledgement
[Microverse Inc](https://www.microverse.org/)
